---
layout: home
---
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a transformative technology that has the potential to revolutionize various aspects of society. However, like any other technology, AI also comes with its own set of risks and challenges. This is where AI Governance comes into play. In the context of this Workshop, AI Governance refers to the set of policies, processes, and controls that could guide the institutions put in place to ensure the responsible development, deployment, and use of artificial intelligence algorithms. One goal of AI Governance is to manage and mitigate the risks associated with AI, such as bias, privacy violations, and safety concerns, while maximizing the benefits of this amazing technology. This includes defining ethical principles and values for AI, creating transparency and accountability mechanisms, and ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory frameworks proposed worldwide. AI Governance is essential to building trust in AI-based systems and ensuring they serve everyone anytime and anywhere.

The three keynote speakers are top AI scientists who are also involved in National and International governance and policy-making initiatives across the globe. They will provide their personal view on the context of AI Governance and on ongoing initiatives, to foster a panel debate in the second part of the meeting. The topics of algorithmic institutionalism and the governance of social media and generative AI will be addressed to drive a timely discussion regarding the ever-increasing distinct usage of AI in our society as a whole.