---
name: Dino Pedreschi
first_name: Dino
last_name: Pedreschi
---

Dino Pedreschi is a professor of computer science at the University of Pisa, and a pioneering scientist in data science and artificial intelligence. He co-leads the Pisa KDD Lab – Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining Laboratory http://kdd.isti.cnr.it, a joint research initiative of the University of Pisa and the Italian National Research Council – CNR. His research focus is on big data analytics and mining, machine learning and AI, and their impact on society: human mobility and sustainable cities, social network analysis, complex social and economic systems, data ethics, discrimination-preventing and privacy-preserving data analytics, explainable AI. Dino is currently shaping the research frontier of Human-centered Artificial Intelligence, as a leading figure in the European network of research labs Humane-AI-Net (scientific director of the line “Societal-aware AI”). He is a co-PI of the ERC Advanced Grant 2018 “XAI – Science and technology for the Explanation of AI Decision Making” [https://xai-project.eu/](https://xai-project.eu/) (PI: Fosca Giannotti). He is a founder of SoBigData, the European H2020 Research Infrastructure “Big Data Analytics and Social Mining Ecosystem” www.sobigdata.eu, admitted in 2021 at the ESFRI Roadmap. Dino is currently the Italian member of the Responsible AI working group of GPAI – the Global Partnership an AI and a member of the OECD Network of Experts in AI. He has been a member of the panel of the Council of Europe for the application of AI in law, and the coordinator of the working group “Big Data & AI for Policy” of the Italian Government “data-driven” Task-force for the Covid-19 emergency. In May 2020 Dino has been requested by the European Parliament (IMCO Committee) to write an in-depth study on the impact of AI on online platforms and marketplaces. Dino is the director of the Data Science PhD program at Scuola Normale Superiore in Pisa and scientific coordinator of the National PhD Program in Artificial Intelligence, a nation-wide initiative led by the University of Pisa and CNR.